# Typing into fields and clicking on elements

One of the most common tasks in testing web applications is the interaction with input fields where we enter text such as name, surname, email, telephone and text area fields, such as in the case of the TAT CSC application.

To handle such fields, Cypress offers a feature called [`.type()`](https://on.cypress.io/type).

Just enter the text you want in the `.type()` command as a string. E.g., `.type('TAT School')`.

And for sending data from a form, Cypress offers the [`.click()`](https://on.cypress.io/click) command.

But before we delve into the `.type()` and `.click()` commands, let me introduce you to the [`cy.get()`](https://on.cypress.io/get) command.

The `cy.get()` command is one of the most common used commands, as it lets us identify the elements with which we want to interact with or make assertions on.

The most common way to use the `cy.get()` command is to pass it a CSS selector as an argument (as a string), which identifies one (or more) element(s), for further action or verification. E.g., `cy.get('[data-test="avatar"]')`.

> **Important:** Cypress has a [retry-ability mechanisms](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability), which means that if Cypress cannot identify an element by its CSS selector (when using the `cy.get()` command, for example), it will retry (for a certain period of time), before failing the test.

Now, let's take a look at something you already did in the previous lesson, using the `.should()` command, but looking at it in a more comprehensive way.

## [Chaining of commands](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/introduction-to-cypress#Chains-of-Commands)

In Cypress, unlike other test automation tools, most commands are chainable.

That is, instead of storing the return of a `cy.get()` in a variable for later use, you chain commands to it, such as a `.should()`, `.type()`, or `.click()`.

For example: `cy.get('input[type="text"]').type('Hello world!')`.

However, the thing doesn't stop there.

The `cy.get()` command yields the found element forward to the next command, and other commands, such as `.type()` and `.click()` (among others), also yields the same element forward, making it possible to chain new commands, for example to run an assertion.

For example:

```js
cy.get('input[type="text"]')
  .type('Hello world!')
  .should('have.value', 'Hello world!')

```

We can even do intermediate assertions.

For example, before typing into the field, we can check if such an element is visible:

```js
cy.get('input[type="text"]')
  .should('be.visible')
  .type('Hello world!')
  .should('have.value', 'Hello world!')
  
```

**Note:** Although you can chain a `.should()` command to `.type()`, ideally, you should not since [actions should be at the end of chains, not the middle](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability#Actions-should-be-at-the-end-of-chains-not-the-middle). That's because [only queries are retried](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability#Only-queries-are-retried).

> During the exercises, I might chain a `.should()` command after a `.type()` (or another action command), but this is just because the TAT CSC application is a sample app, not a real one.
>
> 👨‍🏫 Read the [official documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/api/table-of-contents#Commands) for more details about the different types of commands Cypress offers (`query`, `assertion`, `action`, and `other`).

> 👨‍🏫 A better alternative to the above chain of commands could be the following.

```js
cy.get('input[type="text"]')
  .as('textField')
  .should('be.visible')
  .type('Hello world!')
cy.get('@textField')
  .should('have.value', 'Hello world!')

```

> 👨‍🏫 With the above command, right after I get the `input` of type `text`, I create a reference to it, giving it an [alias](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/as), and I leave the `.type()` command at the end. Afterward, I get the same element by its alias (`cy.get('@textField')`), so I run the final assertion.


Now that you've read Cypress's official documentation on the `cy.get()`, `.type()`, `.click()`, and `.as()` commands, and you're familiar with retry-ability and command chaining, how about some exercises?

## Exercise

1. In the test from the previous lesson, move the visit command to the [`beforeEach()`](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/writing-and-organizing-tests#Hooks) hook.
2. Just below the existing test, add a new test, called `fills in the required fields and submits the form`.
3. The test must combine the commands `cy.get()`, `.type()`, and `.click()`, to type some data in the fields **First name**, **Last name**, **Email** and **How ​​can we help you? Any praise or feedback for us?**, in addition to clicking the **Send** button.
4. After the click, a success message should be displayed (this message must be contained in an element with the `success` class 🙊). Check that such a message is visible (`.should('be.visible')`).
5. Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 1

In the `options` object that we can pass to the `.type()` command, it is possible to override the default `delay` by another value (in milliseconds).

When the value `0` is passed, typing in the field happens almost immediately.

So, try typing a long text in the text area, passing as the second argument of the `.type()` command, an object (`{}`) with the `delay` property value equal to `0`.

> 👨‍🏫 For more details on the `delay` option, read the [official Cypress documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/type#Arguments).
>

Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 2

1. Create a test called `displays an error message when submitting the form with an email with invalid formatting`.
2. Verify that a message is displayed in an element with the class `error`. 🙊
3. Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 3

Since the phone field only accepts numbers, create a test to validate that if a non-numeric value is entered, its value will remain empty.

> 👨‍🏫 To help you verify the value of an input, I recommend reading [following content](https://docs.cypress.io/faq/questions/using-cypress-faq#How-do-I-get-an-inputs-value), straight from the official Cypress documentation.
>
> The first example should suffice.

Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 4

1. Create a test called `displays an error message when the phone becomes required but is not filled in before the form submission`.
2. Verify that a message is displayed on an element with the class `error`.
3. Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 5

A feature that can be used in conjunction with the `.type()` command is the [`.clear()`](https://on.cypress.io/clear) command, which clears a field, for later typing, for example.

1. Therefore, create a test called `fills and clears the first name, last name, email, and phone fields`.
2. Such a test should check the value (`value`) after typing (`.type(...).should('have.value', 'value-here')`), and after cleaning the field ( `.clear().should('have.value', '')`) 🙊.
3. Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 6

1. Create a new test called `displays an error message when submitting the form without filling the required fields`.
2. The test must access the AUT and click on the **Send** button directly.
3. Verify that a message is displayed on an element with the class `error`.
4. Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 7 - [Custom Commands](https://docs.cypress.io/api/cypress-api/custom-commands)

In the world of automated testing with Cypress, we can make use of custom commands to avoid code duplication.

I wrote about it in a content called [How to create custom commands with Cypress](https://dev.to/walmyrlimaesilv/how-to-create-custom-commands-with-cypress-3102). I recommend you read it.

1. Create a test called `successfully submits the form using a custom command`.
2. The test must make use of a `fillMandatoryFieldsAndSubmit` command, which must be implemented in the `cypress/support/commands.js` file.

> 👨‍🏫 I suggest you experiment with different implementations for the same command (e.g., a command that receives no argument; a command that receives an object as argument; a command that receives an object as argument, with default values.)

3. There must be verification that the success message is displayed.
4. Run the new test in the Cypress App, and when it passes, move on to the next exercise.

## Extra exercise 8

Another way to identify elements (for example, to click on them after their definition), is to use the [`cy.contains()`](https://on.cypress.io/contains) command.

With `cy.contains()`, in addition to a CSS selector, you can pass the content of the HTML tag as a second argument.

For example, if you had the following HTML element `<a href="https://example.com">Click here!</a>`, you could identify it by using the following command `cy.contains('a', 'Click here!')`.

Your exercise is to change all the places where we identify the button for later clicking, where instead of identifying that element with `cy.get()`, we will use `cy.contains()`.

> 👨‍🏫 Remember to run all tests to make sure your changes didn't break anything. Move on only when all tests are green.

## Suggested contents

In the below list of contents, I explain some different uses of the `.type()` command.

- [How to fill out and submit forms with Cypress](https://dev.to/walmyrlimaesilv/how-to-fill-out-and-submit-forms-with-cypress-4fm7)
- [How to protect sensitive data with Cypress](https://dev.to/walmyrlimaesilv/how-to-protect-sensitive-data-with-cypress-44d3)

I Hope you like the content!

## Show the world what you've learned

To show your professional network what you've learned so far, post the following on LinkedIn.

> I'm going through the "Cypress, from Zero to the Cloud" course, from the Talking About Testig online school, where I learned about command chaining, retriability, and some of the most common Cypress commands. #TalkingAboutTesting #TATSchool #CypressFromZeroToTheCloud #Cypress

**Note:** Remember to tag me in your post. [Here's my LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/walmyr-lima-e-silva-filho).

___

Congrats! Let's go to [lesson 3](./03.md) to learn how to select options in drop-down select fields.
