# Simulating the viewport of a mobile device

With Cypress, it is possible to resize the browser to simulate a mobile device.

You can pass resolution dimensions from the command line.

For example: `cypress open --config viewportWidth=370 viewportHeight=660`.

## Suggested content

- [How to run tests simulating mobile devices with Cypress](https://dev.to/walmyrlimaesilv/how-to-run-tests-simulating-mobile-devices-with-cypress-9kj).

## Exercise

1. Create a script in the [`package.json`](../package.json) file that **opens the Cypress App** simulating a device with 410 pixels wide, and 860 pixels high.
2. Run the tests and see them passing, simulating a mobile viewport.

## Extra exercise

1. Create a script in the [`package.json`](../package.json) file that runs the tests **in headless mode**, simulating a device with 410 pixels wide and 860 pixels high.
2. Run the tests and see them passing, simulating a mobile viewport, now in headless mode.

## Show the world what you've learned

To show your professional network what you've learned so far, post the following on LinkedIn.

> I'm going through the "Cypress, from Zero to the Cloud" course, from the Talking About Testig online school, where I learned how to simulate a mobile device by overriding the browser's height and width. #TalkingAboutTesting #TATSchool #CypressFromZeroToTheCloud #Cypress

**Note:** Remember to tag me in your post. [Here's my LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/walmyr-lima-e-silva-filho).

___

Congrats! Let's go to [lesson 9](./09.md) to learn how to create the minimal documentation for your Cypress automated testing project.
