# Integrating with 🌲 Cypress Cloud ☁️

Besides the Cypress App (the open-source project), Cypress also offers a freemium service called [Cypress Cloud](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/cloud/introduction), which provides you with very useful functionality to help manage your testing suite.

Some of these functionalities are:

- Testing Parallelization
- Load Balancing
- Dubugging
- Analytics
- Integrations with other systems (e.g., GitHub, Jira, Slack, MS Teams)
- Flake Detection
- Test Replay
- and more.

So, how about if we configure it with your project so you can taste a bit of it?

> 👨‍🏫 Don't worry, we have most of the pieces already in place. It's going to be easy.

## Exercise

1. Create an account on [Cypress Cloud](https://cloud.cypress.io/).

> 👨‍🏫 For that, I recommend using the GitHub Single Sign-On integration.

2. Create an organization and a project, and store the `Project ID` and `Record Key` values.

> **Note:** For more details, check out the [official documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/cloud/introduction).
>
> **Note 2:** Select the GitHub Actions option in the CI Providers section during Cypress Cloud's project creation.

3. On your local project, at the `cypress.config.js` file, add the `projectId` property with the value of the `Project ID` obtained on step two. Put it at the same level of the `e2e` property (not inside of it).

4. At the `package.json` file, add the following new script `test:cloud`, with the following value: `cypress run --record`.

5. At the `.github/workflows/ci.yml` file, add the `CYPRESS_RECORD_KEY` as a secret. Also, add the command `npm run test:cloud` to the `Cypress run` step.

> 🙊 Your `.github/workflows/ci.yml` file should look like this:

```yml
name: End-to-end tests
on: push
jobs:
  cypress-run:
    runs-on: ubuntu-22.04
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Cypress run
        uses: cypress-io/github-action@v6
        env:
          CYPRESS_RECORD_KEY: ${{ secrets.CYPRESS_RECORD_KEY }}
        with:
          command: npm run test:cloud

```

6. At the GitHub project, go to the _Settings_ tab; then, on the left-side menu, select the _Secrets and variables_ option, and so the _action_ option; click on the <kbd>New repository secret</kbd> button and add a variable calledd `CYPRESS_RECORD_KEY` with the value obtained on step 2; Finally, click on the <kbd>Add secret</kbd> button.

7. At the command line terminal (at the root of the project), execute the following commands.

```sh
git add .
git commit -m "Configure cypress cloud"
git push origin main
```

8. Go to the GitHub repository, open the Actions tab, and see the CI workflow being triggered again.

9. At the end of the workflow execution, go to the Cypress Cloud, and see your test results recorded there.

> 👨‍🏫 Take the chance to explore the Cypress Cloud features, such as its analytics, Test Replay, etc.

## Show the world what you've learned

To show your professional network what you've learned so far, post the following on LinkedIn.

> I'm going through the "Cypress, from Zero to the Cloud" course, from the Talking About Testig online school, where I learned how to integrate a Cypress project with the Cypress Cloud. ☁️ #TalkingAboutTesting #TATSchool #CypressFromZeroToTheCloud #Cypress #CypressCloud

**Note:** Remember to tag me in your post. [Here's my LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/walmyr-lima-e-silva-filho).

___

Awesome! Let's go to [lesson 12](./12.md) and tackle some not-so-basic questions that differentiate Cypress from other graphical user interface automated testing frameworks.
